I first searched for virtual machines and got to know that ubuntu servers were free and stable. 
Then I did the procedures for creating the VM. There i got to know-

Cloud Provider:
Microsoft Azure

Region:
South India

VM Details:
I created a virtual machine named VM-1 using Ubuntu Server 24.04 LTS.
The VM size selected was Standard B1s, which is eligible under Azure free-tier.
Ubuntu 24.04 LTS was chosen as it is a stable and supported Linux server OS.

Authentication Method:
SSH key-based authentication was used.
A public/private key pair was generated by Azure during VM creation.
The private key (.pem file) was downloaded and used for SSH login. For me the file name was VM-1.pem.
No password-based authentication was used as private key was given by the cloud.

Networking and Security Configuration:
The VM was assigned a public IP address.
The public Ip for my VM (VM-1) was 20.219.116.92
A Network Security Group (NSG) was associated with the VM’s network interface (NIC).

The following inbound security rules were configured in the NSG:
- ICMPv4 allowed to enable ping from Kali Linux
- TCP port 22 allowed for SSH access
- TCP port 80 allowed for HTTP access

VM Connectivity Tests:
1. Ping Test (Kali → VM):
   From Kali Linux, I pinged the VM public IP to verify inbound connectivity.
   Ping worked successfully after allowing ICMP in the NSG.
   ICMPv4 option was used for adding inbound security rule.

2. SSH Access:
   I connected to the VM using SSH from Kali Linux with the command:
   ssh -i VM-1_key.pem azureuser@20.219.116.92
   Login was successful.

3. Network Verification:
   Inside the VM, I ran the command `ip a` to verify network interfaces and IP configuration.

4. Outbound Connectivity Test:
   I checked my public IP using `curl ifconfig.me` on my local machine.
   From inside the VM, I pinged my public IP.
   The ping request was sent successfully but replies were blocked, indicating outbound traffic was allowed while inbound ICMP on my local network was restricted.

Web Server Setup:
Apache2 web server was installed using apt.
The Apache service was started and enabled.
Port 80 was verified to be listening on all interfaces.

Dictionary Mini Project Webpage:
The default Apache index page was removed.
A custom HTML + JavaScript page was created at /var/www/html/index.html.
The webpage contains:
- An input box to enter a word
- A button to search
- JavaScript code that fetches meanings using the free Dictionary API (dictionaryapi.dev)
- Display of word definitions on the page

HTTP Access Test:
At first I tried the HTTP Access test from my system and not inside the VM. From my local browser, I accessed:
http://20.219.116.92
The dictionary webpage was not loaded and it only gtot loaded on local host.
Then i did the above steps again inside the VM, then i tried accessing http://20.219.116.92
This time my webpage was loaded in VM IP and not in local host.

Shutdown and Deletion:
After completing all tests and screenshots, the VM was stopped.
The VM was then permanently deleted from the Azure portal.
Associated resources such as OS disk, network interface, public IP were also deleted to avoid any charges.
